Tessali was born to Mara and Gerald Rescone, a relatively well-off couple in the farming village of Yelite. 

Gerald, who had grown up in the village, was a simple farmer, selling part of his crops to the caravans that came by every once in a while to get things he couldn’t get otherwise. It was on one of these caravans that came in the dead of winter that Mara came to the village. 

Her auburn hair with reddish and bronze streaks along with her large green eyes and obvious elven lineage drew a large number of stares and no small amount of derision from the entirely human Yelite. The village had had a few run-ins with the elves and had a general distrust of them, especially the innkeeper, who’s prized hunting trophies passed down to him from his father were stolen by the elves. The rotund man by the name of Carl Vere absolutely refused to house the elf, blocking her path with the backup of his two sons when she tried to enter.

Knowing she would probably not last very long out in the cold, Mara offered all of the money she had left for a small room and some food for the night. The innkeeper smiled greedily at the gold coins in the pouch she offered him then took the money and went inside. However, when Mara tried to follow him, she was bodily shoved out the door, catching her heel on a stone and tumbling to the ground as Carl’s sons slammed and locked the door. A few of the watching villagers laughed at her and the rest regarded her as if such a reaction was only her due. Crushed and with nowhere to go, she turned and with tears of hopelessness in her eyes, ran with all the speed she could muster out of the village and into the woods.

Gerald had heard of the caravan coming into town from one of the other villagers and had set off towards town to see if he could trade any of his wares. He was shocked to see a woman alone fleeing the village and entering the woods. Concerned for her safety in the middle of winter and the day coming to a close, he raced after her. A woodsman himself, it only took him a few minutes to trace her hasty trail to a snow covered clearing. She easily spotted him as he approached and cringed away from him where she was seated in one of the few spots devoid of snow. 

The tears that had frozen to her cheeks and her defensive posture pulled at the big man’s heart as he came closer. He managed to calm her down with open palms and sincerity in his voice and took her back to his farm. The cottage he lived in was not large, but it was homey and welcoming, built by Gerald and his father from the forest that bordered their land. At his insistence, Mara ate her fill and quickly fell asleep still sitting in her chair, for some reason feeling safe with the kind farmer. Gerald didn’t have the heart to wake her, so he picked her up and carried her to his bed, covering her with his best blankets and pulling his spares into a makeshift cot on the floor next to the peacefully sleeping woman.

Whimpers woke his light sleep sometime before the barest hint of light touched the horizon, and he had to take a moment to remember what he was doing on the floor. The elf woman he had taken into his home was shaking and making a noise like she was being tortured. He jumped to his feet and shook her, waking her from whatever nightmare she had been having. However, her mind was still in the clutches of fear and she took him by surprise as he broke his light grip on his shoulders and attacked him with all she could muster. The few hits she managed to get in before he pinned her to the bed hurt a little, but not too much, certainly less than the kick his horse had given him a few days back and he hadn’t even noticed that bruise until a couple hours later. Held down by the much larger man, Mara struggled and writhed like an animal caught in a trap. Gerald patiently made calming noises until she was rational enough to look him in the eyes, and the absolute terror he saw there broke his heart. He slowly removed his 
hands from her wrists and held them palms towards her as he backed off far enough that the fear began to fade. 

What Mara saw in this man was confusing to her; she had never been treated this way. The offspring of a half-elf bandit who had raped and beat her elven mother almost to death, she was rejected from her elven home when her mother died the day after her twenty-sixth name day. The elves had only ever shown her contempt and after years of travel humans still distrusted and continually robbed her of what little she had with her. She had finally given up and resigned herself to die in the cold when this man had come and offered her food to eat and a place to stay, had placed her in his own bed, and had tried to spare her the horrors of her nightmares. There was a softness in his deep brown eyes as he regarded her that she had never seen before, and it gave her hope that there was somewhere she could finally stop running from those that would rid the elven bloodline of her. She felt tears begin to fill her eyes as she realized that she had just attacked this person that had helped her. He must hate her. She should leave.

Gerald saw her quickly gather her things and head towards his door before he could react enough to entreat her to at least stay till first light before she left. She seemed astonished that he would try to stop her from leaving, but nodded her acceptance nonetheless. In the morning he took her back to the town to continue on with what he guessed was her caravan, only to find that it was gone. Gerald felt terrible for stopping the woman from leaving in the night, thinking that she knew the caravan was departing before dawn because he had yet to hear a word from her. Feeling guilty and responsible for her, he offered to let her stay at his home until the next caravan came. She nodded with her eyes shimmering with unspent tears as she stared at the place the caravan had occupied the day before. 

It took Gerald a few days to get her comfortable enough with him to speak, but it was worth the effort. She had the most beautiful voice he had ever heard, and it along with her exotic beauty had him absolutely smitten with her. 

Months passed as Mara and Gerald strengthened their strange relationship, talking about anything and everything they could think of, though she refused to talk about her past. Gerald kept an ear out for word of passing caravans, but heard nothing. During this time Mara introduced him to the little known Kasrassi, the goddess of light, healing, and everything past, present, and future, whose symbol was a starburst with the top and bottom points longer and thicker than the rest, the symbol she wore on a pendant around her neck. He was a little skeptical of a goddess he had never heard of, but after he gashed his leg one day chopping wood and Mara called upon Kasrassi to heal him, he believed and joined her in her prayers. It was kind of hard to argue the existence of a goddess when you watched your leg knit itself back together with a soft white light. 

When word of a caravan finally reached Gerald’s ears six months after he had taken Mara into his home, he was loathe to see her go and considered not mentioning it, but in the end stayed true to his word and told her with a heavy heart.

Hearing the news of the caravan was the saddest day in Mara’s life. She wanted with all her heart to stay with this large gentle human whom she had grown to love, but she knew she had long overstayed her welcome. Deciding to lock this in her heart as a happy time, she refused to let Gerald see the tears in her eyes as they traveled into town to meet the caravan. 

As Mara stood in front of the caravan that she would be leaving on, Gerald knew in his heart that he couldn’t let this woman go without telling her he loved her and wanted her to stay, and become his wife if she would accept. He hugged her to his chest and whispered in her ear, telling her exactly that. She flinched in his arms at his words and he reluctantly let her go, certain that he would see disgust in her face. Instead he looked up to see her beaming face full of tears and hope before she threw herself in his arms, whispering ‘yes’ over and over again. 

The union of Gerald, a human, and Mara, the child of a half-elf and a full blood elf, was the talk of the village for some months after they were married according to village tradition, but soon became something that everyone was simply used to. It took some time before Gerald was treated with the respect he had enjoyed before his marriage, but he considered it more than a fair trade. The only ones in town who didn’t accept their decision was Carl the innkeeper and his family who still held a grudge against the elves for stealing their family heirloom.

Another year passed before Tessali was born on midsummer’s day (the summer solstice). She was marked as an odd child even from birth when she opened her eyes to stare at her mother mere seconds after she exited the womb. Her irises were the purest white, even brighter than the whites of her eyes, with the edges darkening to a silvery color. She showed very little of her elvish heritage with slightly larger eyes and ears that only hinted at a point. 

Aside from her birth, she didn’t visit the village again for the next eight years. During that time her parents taught her all that they could think of. She showed an incredible intellect from that early age, mastering all her father could teach her before she was even six, by which time she was fairly fluent in both Elvish and Common. After that, Mara stayed with little Tessa almost all the time while Gerald tended to the farm on his own, though seeing his beautiful daughter always caused the day’s exertions to fall from him. 

The week before Tessa’s seventh nameday, Mara went into town and bought a new necklace for her daughter and had the craftsman attach her pendant to it. She prayed over it for the next seven days whenever she thought about it, which was almost all the time. Even on their almost daily mother-daughter trips into the forest to teach Tessa about woodsmanship and survival in the forest, she would stop often and ask Kasrassi to bless the pendant to keep her daughter safe from harm. 

